readme.md, before:

# space150 node-subdir Heroku Buildpack
Inspired by the awesome [timanovsky/subdir-heroku-buildpack](https://github.com/timanovsky/subdir-heroku-buildpack) project. We created this buildpack because we often have projects that require *multiple* directories, and Tim's project only supported keeping a single directory. We also need to handle some additional `package.json` tweaking that is specific to Node.js & Heroku.

As an example, consider the following repository structure:
- `/`
  - `core/` Contains a shared codebase that is used by both the `web` and `admin` projects.
  - `web/` Contains the project for serving a headless public website. Dependent on the `core` project.
  - `admin/` Contains the project for serving a private administration site. Also dependent on the `core` project. The public website must not have any knowledge or reference to this `admin` site's existence.
  
In this case, we need that `core` library to survive when deploying the `web` and `admin` sites to Heroku, since the `npm run build` command for both `admin` and `web` relies on that `core` library existing at build-time. Additionally, we need the ability to instruct Heroku which project to launch via a Config variable.

## Heroku Setup
1. Have your repository mirror the directory structure referenced above. The exact folder names are not important; you can name them however you like.
1. Make sure your projects `package.json` all have a `build` and `start` script entered. They can be empty, but they must exist.
1. Log into Heroku & create two Heroku Config Vars in your project:
    - `BUILDPACK_START` points to the directory in your repository that contains the `package.json` to run. This config allows Heroku to be configured to launch one of many projects in the repository. In our example above, this would get set to `admin` for the admin project, and `web` for the public project.
    - `BUILDPACK_KEEP` is a `;`-delimited list that includes all of the directories to retain. In our example case above, to configure the `public` site this would get set to `web;core`. On the `admin` site, this would get set to `admin;core`.
1. Set this buildpack as the first item in the buildpack chain. Paste in the Git URL `https://github.com/space150/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack.git`. We recommend appending a specific commit hash to this Git URL so that any future changes we make to the `main` branch do not impact your project. We fully reserve the right to make breaking changes at any time without any advance warning or notification.

## How it works
1. Creates a new `package.json` file on the root of the build artifact that delegates the `build` and `start` commands to the configured `BUILDPACK_START` directory. The buildpack also attempts to set the `{ engines: { node }}` value in this new root `package.json` file to match whatever is entered in your `BUILDPACK_START/package.json` file.
1. Takes the configured `BUILDPACK_KEEP` directories and copies them to the root of the build artifact.
1. Deletes everything in the Heroku build directory.
1. Copies the build artifact into the now-empty Heroku build directory.
1. Deletes the build artifact, leaving the final files in the Heroku build directory.

## Development Setup & Testing
1. Create some local directories to mirror the Heroku `build`, `cache`, and `env` buildpack directory. On my machine, it looks like:
    - Build: `/Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/build`
    - Cache: `/Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/cache`
    - Env: `/Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/env`
1. Copy your repository into your configured `build` directory.
1. Create `BUILDPACK_START` and `BUILDPACK_KEEP` files in your `env` buildpack directory. The contents of each file should be the values you want the buildpack to use.
1. While testing, it is recommended to create a `BUILDPACK_DEV` file in the `env` buildpack directory as well to disable the normal cleaning process. If you don't do this, you will have to clear out & re-copy your repository files in the `test/build` directory after each test.
1. Run the `./bin/compile` script passing in the paths to each of your buildpack directories. Here's how it looks on my machine: `sh ./bin/compile /Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/build /Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/cache /Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/env`
1. Check the `build` or `cache` directory to verify that your edits worked.

Commit message:

Adding the BUILDPACK_BUILD_COMMAND argument to allow specific control over what happens during a build.

readme.md, after:

# space150 node-subdir Heroku Buildpack
Inspired by the awesome [timanovsky/subdir-heroku-buildpack](https://github.com/timanovsky/subdir-heroku-buildpack) project. We created this buildpack because we often have projects that require *multiple* directories, and Tim's project only supported keeping a single directory. We also need to handle some additional `package.json` tweaking that is specific to Node.js & Heroku.

As an example, consider the following repository structure:
- `/`
  - `core/` Contains a shared codebase that is used by both the `web` and `admin` projects.
  - `web/` Contains the project for serving a headless public website. Dependent on the `core` project.
  - `admin/` Contains the project for serving a private administration site. Also dependent on the `core` project. The public website must not have any knowledge or reference to this `admin` site's existence.
  
In this case, we need that `core` library to survive when deploying the `web` and `admin` sites to Heroku, since the `npm run build` command for both `admin` and `web` relies on that `core` library existing at build-time. Additionally, we need the ability to instruct Heroku which project to launch via a Config variable.

## Heroku Setup
1. Have your repository mirror the directory structure referenced above. The exact folder names are not important; you can name them however you like.
1. Make sure your projects `package.json` all have a `build` and `start` script entered. They can be empty, but they must exist.
1. Log into Heroku & create two Heroku Config Vars in your project:
    - `BUILDPACK_START` points to the directory in your repository that contains the `package.json` to run. This config allows Heroku to be configured to launch one of many projects in the repository. In our example above, this would get set to `admin` for the admin project, and `web` for the public project.
    - `BUILDPACK_KEEP` is a `;`-delimited list that includes all of the directories to retain. In our example case above, to configure the `public` site this would get set to `web;core`. On the `admin` site, this would get set to `admin;core`.
    - `BUILDPACK_BUILD_COMMAND` is optional. It defaults to `npm install && npm run build`, but can be overridden if your project has a specific command that needs to execute. After the `BUILDPACK_BUILD_COMMAND` is run, your app should be able to `npm run start`.
1. Set this buildpack as the first item in the buildpack chain. Paste in the Git URL `https://github.com/space150/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack.git`. We recommend appending a specific commit hash to this Git URL so that any future changes we make to the `main` branch do not impact your project. We fully reserve the right to make breaking changes at any time without any advance warning or notification.

## How it works
1. Creates a new `package.json` file on the root of the build artifact that delegates the `build` and `start` commands to the configured `BUILDPACK_START` directory. The buildpack also attempts to set the `{ engines: { node }}` value in this new root `package.json` file to match whatever is entered in your `BUILDPACK_START/package.json` file.
1. Takes the configured `BUILDPACK_KEEP` directories and copies them to the root of the build artifact.
1. Deletes everything in the Heroku build directory.
1. Copies the build artifact into the now-empty Heroku build directory.
1. Deletes the build artifact, leaving the final files in the Heroku build directory.

## Development Setup & Testing
1. Create some local directories to mirror the Heroku `build`, `cache`, and `env` buildpack directory. On my machine, it looks like:
    - Build: `/Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/build`
    - Cache: `/Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/cache`
    - Env: `/Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/env`
1. Copy your repository into your configured `build` directory.
1. Create `BUILDPACK_START` and `BUILDPACK_KEEP` files in your `env` buildpack directory. The contents of each file should be the values you want the buildpack to use.
1. While testing, it is recommended to create a `BUILDPACK_DEV` file in the `env` buildpack directory as well to disable the normal cleaning process. If you don't do this, you will have to clear out & re-copy your repository files in the `test/build` directory after each test, and on large repositories this can take significant time.
1. Run the `./bin/compile` script passing in the paths to each of your buildpack directories. Here's how it looks on my machine: `sh ./bin/compile /Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/build /Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/cache /Users/developer/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/env`
  1. On Windows, you can use [CMDER]() to emulate the shell script. `sh ./bin/compile C:/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/build C:/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/cache C:/dev/node-subdir-heroku-buildpack/.test/env`
1. Check the `build` or `cache` directory to verify that your edits worked.
